[Music] well the coronavirus or has taken a
importance in this 2020 is how we woke up with the coronavirus as a
threatens the first of January since on December 31 China gave the notice to the network
world health that there was an outbreak of a viral infection an infection that
they did not know specifically who caused it and that as in other epidemics
seemed to have an animal origin that we know coronaviruses are viruses are
very simple structures are almost a mile
microorganism which makes it easy to spread from person to person
another on December 1st apparently as far as we can
understand 2019 a person acquired in a market where they are sold
animals either for food consumption or as pets a coronavirus virus
whether it is a pangolin bat or a reptile bat is not yet well determined.
transmitted by a human being the problem with this virus is that it could be transmitted
from that human being to another human being the four old coronaviruses that
we knew they produce 15 percent of the common flu and because I speak of
these 4 old and known coronaviruses because they are a common cause of problems
respiratory diseases in humans in 2002 the first coronavirus appeared
aggressive was called you know also appeared in china in the city of guandong and
it was also transmitted by an animal is a type of cat that they use there to
feeding and produced at that time the death of eight thousand individuals a
mortality of 9 percent and was the first big alarm that the
coronavirus could behave with an aggressive respiratory virus
in 2012 the second aggressive coronavirus appears, this is called merz
because he appreciated in the middle east medel this respiratory syndrome and here it was
transmitted by a camel to a human being and the human being transmits it to
another human being the same as what happened with the tsar what is the difference well
that this virus instead of having a mortality of 9 percent of a
34 percent mortality if one in three people get this disease
he is going to die and in 2019 on December 31 we will speak
of the appearance of this third new coronavirus now called cobit 2019
where the origin seems to be as bat or a vague link commented to them and has
had two characteristics that have made this virus especially dangerous
it can first be spread when the individual does not yet have symptoms that
means that in the incubation period we call when I acquire
to the virus when it developed the symptoms I can get to infect the
disease and then in that period the person is totally asymptomatic what
which makes it very complex to determine when to isolate a
person because they will not have symptoms and secondly it is a virus with a capacity to
extraordinary dissemination the best example is that after china the
second place where there have been more cases of coronavirus is on a cruise ship where
kept more than 400 people fixed on that cruise ship and there are more than 200 cases of
infected people is to say if I am in contact with people
who has coronavirus I am going to be infected and unfortunately being a virus
new because it comes from an animal none of the human beings before the first
December 2019 had antibodies against this virus which
which makes the entire population of the world susceptible to developing this
luckily from the news we have and from the studies
epidemiological studies that have been shown this virus has a lethality rate
mortality less than 2 percent say we are not going to die all of
coronavirus but if we are going to have to take care because there are people
especially older people who have diabetes who have
obesity who have heart problems that can die from this disease is
a rule that is going to reach Mexico you have to be forewarned you have to be
pay attention you have to take care [Music]